# 🧐 Research for BIP340 / Schnorr signature

BIP (Bitcoin improvement proposal) 340 introduced Schnorr signature scheme to Bitcoin core as part of Taproot upgrade.

Reference: https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0340.mediawiki

This research is to understand and to implement BIP340 support for Mina.

## BIP340 vs ECDSA

Both uses `Secp256k1` Elliptic curve. 

_Hence_, `o1js/lib/gadgets/elliptic-curve.ts` can be referenced.

BIP340 _public key_ is of _32 bytes_ while ECDSA _public key_ is of _33 bytes_

BIP340 _signature_ is of _64 bytes_ while ECDSA _signature_ is of _70 - 72 bytes_

One key advantage of Schnorr signature scheme is its support for signature aggregation.

Reference: https://chain.link/education-hub/schnorr-signature

## BIP340 Schnorr vs Mina Schnorr

Mina Schnorr signature scheme is adapted from BIP340 by using `Pallas Pasta` (instead of `Secp256k1`) for curve and `poseidon` (instead of `Sha256`) for hashing.

_Hence_, `o1js/lib/signature.ts` can be referenced.

```typescript
// ref: lib/signature.ts
return Bool.and(r.x.equals(this.r), r.y.toBits()[0].equals(false));
```


Reference: https://github.com/MinaProtocol/mina/blob/develop/docs/specs/signatures/description.md

## Verifying Schorr signature

Inputs:
-   The public key  _pk_: a 32-byte array
-   The message  _m_: a byte array
-   A signature  _sig_: a 64-byte array

The signature is valid if and only if the algorithm below does not fail.
- Let  _`P = lift_x(int(pk))`_; fail if that fails.
- Let  _`r = int(sig[0:32])`_; fail if  _`r ≥ p`_.
- Let  _`s = int(sig[32:64])`_; fail if  _`s ≥ n`_.
- Let  _`e = int(hashBIP0340/challenge(bytes(r) || bytes(P) || m)) mod n`_.
- Let  _R = s⋅G - e⋅P_.
- Fail if  _`infinite(R) OR odd(y(R)) OR x(R) != r`_


## Verifying Mina Schorr signature

Inputs:
- Public key  _`P`_: a curve point
- Message  _`m`_: message
- Signature  _`σ`_: signature on  _`m`_
- Network id  _`id`_: blockchain instance identifier

The signature is valid if and only if the algorithm below does not fail.
- Let  _`e = message_hash(P, b(σ), m, id)`_
- Let  _`R = [s(σ)]G - [e]P`_
- Fail if  _`infinite(R) OR odd(y(R)) OR x(R) != b(σ)`_

## Implementing BIP340 provable verification

To implement with minimal changes to `o1js`

- verification algorithm is to be implemented as an external file (to be updated)
- if there is a need for certain built-in functions and classes to be exposed, `patch-package` https://www.npmjs.com/package/patch-package will be used during development
- eventually, BIP340 support would be contributed to `o1js` core
